To start: this is not well researched, the following is nothing more than a journal entry I wrote after reading [this article](https://www.quantamagazine.org/to-make-sense-of-the-present-brains-may-predict-the-future-20180710/) (hence the title).  It is loosely based on the content on the article, but it is largely a broad summary of ideas that have been brewing for years.  This is a direct copy of the original entry in its entirety (aside from bracketed edits).  In the coming week/weeks I will elaborate upon each topic in great detail as I research relevant aspects of the predictive processing paradigm.


## *Suppositions*
[Unedited: square brackets indicate potential points to be edited]

Perception and cognition are the mind manufacturing predictions and testing those predictions against external stimuli/the environment.  As layers of processing increase (namely number of neurons), predictive power increases and becomes elevated to higher levels of abstraction.  I believe that consciousness is simply a result of higher predictive power that arises from an increase in processing layers.  This is also what intelligence arises from (intelligence and consciousness are intimately related in this sense).  Furthermore, this means that consciousness is not some threshold that humans have just happened to cross but is a  gradient; as processing layers increase, lucidity (synonymous with consciousness) increases accordingly.  Perhaps self awareness is simply an inevitable by-product that arises as lucidity increases as some higher level abstractions require or even induce self-awareness [edit: (elaborate on the example of looking in a mirror).  I believe this is especially true in social entities as higher level coordination requires members to possess self awareness (and specification of individuals in a group).
 
While we like to think we’re generally rational beings (i.e. our actions are the results of higher cognition), it’s becoming widely apparent that we are largely driven by irrational, primal emotions.  I believe emotions are not completely irrational, for they are the manifestation of lower level modeling.  This lower level processing works well for simpler, solitary animals, but for more lucid and social animals, the cortex is necessary.  Since this type of limbic processing is all that many animals have, I think that animals are driven purely by emotion ---they just do not have the higher level interpretation of emotions that higher animals have.  I believe even in higher animals, higher processing is almost entirely (at least initially) driven by lower, limbic processing.  Desires start at the limbic level, models are made at the limbic level to meet immediate desires [edit: higher models are built upon lower models to consistently meet lower desires (in environments that require higher abstraction such as within social hierarchies)], these models are relayed to higher levels or higher layers create different models when lower level models fail, and as models on all levels either fail or succeed, they [edit: and their dependencies] are refined for the next application.  As lower desires and models to fulfill these desires permeate upward to higher processing of the cortex, they are interpreted, rationalised, justified ---packaged into workable models that are within the realm of conscious awareness.  The feedback loop of model refinement permeates downward through the layers: if a model fails [edit: and is thus modified], or a new one is created, lower, foundational models are refined or built.  I think this is the case with cognitive behavioral therapy or any other technique of consciously creating higher level models and adhering to them until they permeate downward into permanence.

Perhaps this is where the utility of dreams and other introspective techniques come in.  These techniques reveal lower desires to the conscious (higher layers, the cortex), allowing these lower desires to be linearized and addressed through manageable high level models.  As these new cognitive/perceptual models are reinforced through external feedback [edit: when productive habits are created], these new models permeate down the layers until maladaptive lower models are modified and replaced.  I believe the reason why dreams can be particularly useful (at least Jung sure thought so, and he knew better than anyone) is that they are the direct result of predictive models generating perception in the absence of external feedback (I believe).  Generally, reality as we know it is generated by predictive models.  At all levels of processing, predictions are made about the environment (physical properties, events, actions) and when these predictions are proven incorrect by our environment, models are refined and perhaps in a sense, this constant process of refinement is what constitutes our perception of reality [edit: (e.g. we tend not to pay attention to things that agree with our models)].  While asleep, this process of prediction continues without external refinement, leading to wild over predictions generating a nonsensical reality.  Dreams feel “real” because the process of dream generation is essentially the same as the process of reality generation, except without external cues.  The reason why this is useful, is that the predictive models in dreams are (perhaps) amplified (especially lower level models) due to a lack of external cues causing positive feedback loops (which are rooted at lower levels). [edit: In other words, the only refinement cues are from within ---there is no outside correcting force, so incorrect models are affirmed ---feedback loops].  As a dream reality is generated from mainly lower level processing (aside: “normal” reality is also initially seed from lower desires, but is tamed by higher level processing), lower models become apparent symbolically ---these symbols are easily packaged and interpreted in the conscious higher brain (allowing for higher refinement, permeation, ---you get the point).
